What should you do if you can't remember a word in the
middle of a conversation? Good
morning, my friend. This is Coffee with Kaizen #12. Today is
Friday, August 27, 2021. Although for you it's most likely
Monday so I hope you had a good weekend. Very happy to be
here with you this morning, giving you some tips and
knowledge. I don't have any notes or particular lessons for
you this morning, but I was just thinking about something
that we all go through as language learners and a solution
to that problem that has worked for me and many of my
students and friends as well, so I just want to share it
with you really quick, so I'm hoping that this episode is
going to be short because typically, when I don't write
notes or anything, my episodes get very long because I just
talk and talk and talk and talk, you know, because I'm a
podcaster. But anyway, the tip I wanted to share with you
today is about something that we all experience.
Like I said, as language learners, even in our native
language, sometimes it happens to us. And what I'm talking
about is when you're having a conversation with somebody and
for whatever reason, just out of nowhere or unexpectedly,
you can't remember the word or the expression or the phrase
that you would like to use in that moment. See what I'm
saying? So we could be talking and you're describing this
idea or something that happened to you or what you think
about a particular situation and you just can't remember the
word that perfectly expresses whatever it is you're trying
to say. And what happens is a lot of times when we're
learning a foreign language, we already kind of feel
insecure about our level, our abilities, pronunciation,
whatever it is. We're already kind of nervous to be
communicating in this foreign language and on top of that,
we get even more nervous when we start to feel like, "Fuck,
I'm going to ruin the conversation because I can't
communicate well enough or I can't understand everything
this person is saying or my vocabulary isn't expansive
enough" or whatever it is, you know what I mean? So we
already have those insecurities in our mind and then when we
get to the moment where we can't think of a word or a
phrase, we kind of just get stuck like, "Oh shit." And what
a lot of people do, it's happened to me before, I'll be
talking to somebody and they can't find the word or the
phrase that expresses their idea, They'll just say, "Ah,
forget about it. Never mind." And the problem with that is,
like, nobody wins in that situation because now, I don't
know what you were trying to say and I'll never know. Number
two is that subject is no longer up for discussion. You
basically just said, "Ah, fuck the conversation." And number
three, you never learned what it is you were trying to say.
You can't be helped if you don't let somebody help you, you
know? And I...I understand that a lot of people are afraid
to ask for help from somebody that's not a teacher. But what
you got to understand is everybody's a teacher because
everybody knows something that you don't. So you cannot be
afraid to ask for help, especially when it's like, "Help me
find the word I'm looking for." You know what I'm saying?
Like, I understand the insecurity or the fear behind doing
something like that, but it's really no big deal, man. It's
really no big deal. It's the only way you're gonna learn as
well, you know? It's actually the best way to learn because
the same way that talking to yourself is beneficial. Having
a conversation with somebody and not knowing how to say
something is equally beneficial because now we're engaged in
a conversation, we're connecting in some kind of way, and
you need a word or phrase in that moment and you don't have
it. So then when I give it to you, now you have context, you
have a memory, because we were having this conversation. So
it's connected to something, an experience that you had with
me as opposed to just reading it in a book and trying to
memorize it again and again and again. You actually were in
a situation where you needed to have it, so you're much more
likely to remember it, and it's a much more natural way of
learning the language, I think. But anyway, let me get back
to my point. The tip or the recommendation I have for you in
situations like that where you're talking to somebody and
for whatever reason you just can't remember the word, your
mind just *poof* loses the word or the expression for
whatever reason, what you can do is simply describe the
idea. Maybe you don't have the word or the exact phrasal
verb or the expression or whatever it is, but you should
just describe the idea to the person. And as a native
speaker, they should be able to help you find the word or
expression or phrase that you're looking for. And this is
one of the reasons that I spend so much time explaining
things, or at least I try to explain things in great detail
and a lot of times I overexplain very simple ideas and
things like that, but it's because I want it to be crystal
clear in your mind the idea of a particular word,
expression, phrase, cultural reference or whatever it is. So
sometimes I notice that I'll explain the same thing two or
three times and maybe two or three different ways but what I
believe is beneficial about that is that when you're
learning this word or this phrase or whatever it is, now you
have a clear idea of not only what the word means, but how
it is used and why it is used. So in a situation where
you're trying to think of this word or this phrase or
whatever it is, you can at least, hopefully, remember the
idea of the word.
You can have a vision in your mind of what this action is,
even though you can't think of the word. So in moments like
that, what you can do is describe the action and a native
speaker has been speaking the language their whole lives, so
they're much more likely to be able to hear a description of
a word or a phrase or an idea and think of the word that
matches. Hopefully I'm making sense here. So let me just
give you a simple example. Me and you were talking and
you're trying to tell me about your morning, right? And you
can't think of the phrasal verb "get up", just an example.
And you're like, "Man, I know what I did. I can see it in my
mind. I just can't think of the word." So what you can do is
just describe it to me. Say, "Man, what's the first thing
you do in the morning?" And just me, naturally, I start to
ask myself, "I guess I get up." Yeah, "Get up. Exactly. So I
got up 6:00, and..." Ba ba ba ba ba ba. Then you start to
tell me your story. Nobody was hurt. Nobody died. Didn't
kill the conversation. Nobody's embarrassed or anything like
that. You simply describe the idea to me, and I help you
find the words. It's really that simple. Or another example.
Let's say we're talking about, um, a football game that you
saw on TV, and it was just an amazing game. So many talented
players. It was great. It was amazing. And you're trying to
find this particular word. You're like, "Man, Cristiano
Ronaldo is like, he's a really, he's a good player but
there's another word I'm looking for. I can't remember it.
What's the word for when you see somebody talented and they
do something crazy and you go, 'Wow!'" Now you just
described the idea of the word that you're looking for. When
I hear that, I'm like, "I guess impressive? You were
impressed?" "Yeah, exactly. Impressive. His talent is very,
very impressive. I was impressed." Now, maybe these aren't
the best examples. I didn't prepare them ahead of time. I'm
just thinking of them now as I'm talking to you. But
hopefully I'm making sense and hopefully you can get the
idea. Very simple thing that you can do to move your
conversations forward or make sure they don't die or end
simply because you can't think of a word is just describe
the word or the idea or whatever, or the action, whatever it
is. So in the future, if you're not already doing it,
whenever you learn words and phrases, especially verbs,
especially phrasal verbs and things like that, try to keep
in your mind an image or, not a video, but a visualization,
a visual representation of the verb, of the action, because
that's going to help you remember those words and attach
them mentally to the actions. But also when you can't
remember the phrasal verb, you can at least describe the
idea. And that's why it's so important to consume a bunch of
things in English, you know, to listen to these podcasts, to
listen to the explanations, to understand the idea, the
visual idea behind, especially verbs, but just ideas in
general. Because there will be times when you simply forget
words and a simple little thing you can do is just describe
the word to the person. And most native speakers, if not all
of them, will get the idea and help you find the word that
you're looking for. So two things happen: you get the
vocabulary, you remember, or you learn the word that you
need to express that idea, and the conversation just keeps
going. No big deal.
So hopefully my little tip or recommendation or explanation
was clear enough for you to understand the idea of what I
was trying to express. If you find yourself in a situation
where you just can't remember a word or a phrase, phrasal
verb, whatever it is, just describe the idea. And now, if
you're not already doing it, in the future, make an effort
to really understand the idea of words and phrases and
things like that. Don't just try to learn words. Try to
learn the context and try to have a visualization or a
visual representation of every word or phrase, phrasal verb
that you learn. I think it's really going to help you
remember things more, but also have better conversations
because you're not thinking so much and you're not so
nervous about the fact that you can't remember certain words
or phrases. Just describe it to the person you're talking to
and if they're a native speaker, even if they're not,
there's a high chance that they will be able to understand
the idea and give you the word that you're looking for. And
even if they can't, as long as they can understand the idea
of what you're trying to say, most of the time, the
conversation can just continue. It's no big deal. Alright?
So let me know in the comments if I was clear, if this
little tip or recommendation, you know, you think it might
be useful to you or something like that, because I'm not
really sure after talking all this time, but ah...hopefully
it helps you. Alright, but that's Coffee with Kaizen #12 in
the books. I'll talk to you tomorrow.
Peace!